README.md, before:

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://github.com/ixahmedxi/noodle/blob/main/apps/web/public/android-chrome-192x192.png?raw=true" alt="Noodle logo" width="75">  
  <h1>Noodle <br> Rethinking Student Productivity</h1>
  <br>
</div>

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-BADGE:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->

[![All Contributors](https://img.shields.io/badge/all_contributors-14-orange.svg?style=flat-square)](#contributors-)

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-BADGE:END -->

> **Warning**
> This is a work-in-progress and not the finished product.
>
> Noodle is in it's very early days of development and there is not much going on for the product right now.
> We are working hard to providing an initial version as soon as possible and also accepting contributions.
>
> Feel free to leave feature suggestions but please don't open issues for bugs or support requests just yet.
>
> Follow me on twitter [@ixahmedxii](https://twitter.com/ixahmedxii) for updates.

![Noodle Preview](https://github.com/ixahmedxi/noodle/blob/main/apps/web/public/preview.png?raw=true)

<p align="center" style="color:dodgerblue;"><strong>⚠️ This is a UI design mockup of what the platform will look like, it is not the current state of the project.</strong></p>

## Planned Features

- 📁 Module/Subject Management
- 📒 Note taking
- 🗄️ Task Management
- ✅ Assignment grade calculator
- ⚡️ Flash cards
- 🤖 Powerful AI automations
- 📆 Timetable
- 📈 Insights
- 🧠 Mind maps

## Purpose

Typically, for a student, you need to be using multiple applications just to be managing your education well. This would include a note-taking, a calendar, task management, a grade calculator, flashcards and more apps. This is tedious to manage and can be overwhelming for students.

Noodle is a platform that aims to solve this problem by providing a single platform for students to manage everything to do with their education. And with the power of having all of that data in one place, we can provide students with powerful insights and automation to help them be more productive.

As an open-source platform, Noodle strives to cultivate a community of students and developers who can collectively contribute to building the most exceptional student productivity platform.

## Star History

[![Star History Chart](https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=ixahmedxi/noodle#gh-light-mode-only)](https://star-history.com/#ixahmedxi/noodle#gh-light-mode-only)
[![Star History Chart](https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=ixahmedxi/noodle&theme=dark#gh-dark-mode-only)](https://star-history.com/#ixahmedxi/noodle#gh-dark-mode-only)

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://media3.giphy.com/media/v1.Y2lkPTc5MGI3NjExMnBkMmJ5d2FhbHBocm90ams1MzF5dTI5emVtNGhwMTFpdmp3YnZiYiZlcD12MV9pbnRlcm5hbF9naWZfYnlfaWQmY3Q9Zw/YnkMcHgNIMW4Yfmjxr/giphy.gif" alt="Stonks GIF">
</div>

## Contributors ✨

Thanks goes to these wonderful people ([emoji key](https://allcontributors.org/docs/en/emoji-key)):

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable -->
<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://elsakaan.dev"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/20271968?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Ahmed Elsakaan"/><br /><sub><b>Ahmed Elsakaan</b></sub></a><br /><a href="#audio-ixahmedxi" title="Audio">🔊</a> <a href="#video-ixahmedxi" title="Videos">📹</a> <a href="https://github.com/ixahmedxi/noodle/commits?author=ixahmedxi" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/ixahmedxi/noodle/commits?author=ixahmedxi" title="Documentation">📖</a> <a href="#a11y-ixahmedxi" title="Accessibility">️️️️♿️</a> <a href="https://github.com/ixahmedxi/noodle/issues?q=author%3Aixahmedxi" title="Bug reports">🐛</a> <a href="#blog-ixahmedxi" title="Blogposts">📝</a> <a href="#business-ixahmedxi" title="Business development">💼</a> <a href="#content-ixahmedxi" title="Content">🖋</a> <a href="#data-ixahmedxi" title="Data">🔣</a> <a href="#design-ixahmedxi" title="Design">🎨</a> <a href="#example-ixahmedxi" title="Examples">💡</a> <a href="#eventOrganizing-ixahmedxi" title="Event Organizing">📋</a> <a href="#financial-ixahmedxi" title="Financial">💵</a> <a href="#fundingFinding-ixahmedxi" title="Funding Finding">🔍</a> <a href="#ideas-ixahmedxi" title="Ideas, Planning, & Feedback">🤔</a> <a href="#maintenance-ixahmedxi" title="Maintenance">🚧</a> <a href="#mentoring-ixahmedxi" title="Mentoring">🧑‍🏫</a> <a href="#platform-ixahmedxi" title="Packaging/porting to new platform">📦</a> <a href="#plugin-ixahmedxi" title="Plugin/utility libraries">🔌</a> <a href="#projectManagement-ixahmedxi" title="Project Management">📆</a> <a href="#promotion-ixahmedxi" title="Promotion">📣</a> <a href="#question-ixahmedxi" title="Answering Questions">💬</a> <a href="#research-ixahmedxi" title="Research">🔬</a> <a href="https://github.com/ixahmedxi/noodle/pulls?q=is%3Apr+reviewed-by%3Aixahmedxi" title="Reviewed Pull Requests">👀</a> <a href="#security-ixahmedxi" title="Security">🛡️</a> <a href="#tool-ixahmedxi" title="Tools">🔧</a> <a href="#translation-ixahmedxi" title="Translation">🌍</a> <a href="https://github.com/ixahmedxi/noodle/commits?author=ixahmedxi" title="Tests">⚠️</a> <a href="#tutorial-ixahmedxi" title="Tutorials">✅</a> <a href="#talk-ixahmedxi" title="Talks">📢</a> <a href="#userTesting-ixahmedxi" title="User Testing">📓</a> <a href="#infra-ixahmedxi" title="Infrastructure (Hosting, Build-Tools, etc)">🚇</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/antoniobfm"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/23482001?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Antônio Moraes"/><br /><sub><b>Antônio Moraes</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/ixahmedxi/noodle/commits?author=antoniobfm" title="Documentation">📖</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://nrwl.io"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/23692104?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Nrwl"/><br /><sub><b>Nrwl</b></sub></a><br /><a href="#financial-nrwl" title="Financial">💵</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://www.liamsegura.com"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/102547056?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Liam Segura"/><br /><sub><b>Liam Segura</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/ixahmedxi/noodle/commits?author=liamsegura" title="Documentation">📖</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://nanos.club"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/22123308?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Nano"/><br /><sub><b>Nano</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/ixahmedxi/noodle/commits?author=misternano" title="Code">💻</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="http://rysana.com"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/51100181?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="John—Rysana"/><br /><sub><b>John—Rysana</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/ixahmedxi/noodle/commits?author=jrysana" title="Code">💻</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/mabdulker"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/97461667?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Max Abdulkerimov"/><br /><sub><b>Max Abdulkerimov</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/ixahmedxi/noodle/commits?author=mabdulker" title="Code">💻</a></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/JeKaQM"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/74925827?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Jeno Manivcsuk"/><br /><sub><b>Jeno Manivcsuk</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/ixahmedxi/noodle/commits?author=JeKaQM" title="Code">💻</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://i-naeem.github.io"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/100943448?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Muhammad Naeem"/><br /><sub><b>Muhammad Naeem</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/ixahmedxi/noodle/commits?author=i-naeem" title="Code">💻</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="http://website-xhayper.vercel.app"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/46065349?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="hayper"/><br /><sub><b>hayper</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/ixahmedxi/noodle/commits?author=xhayper" title="Documentation">📖</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/masterujjval"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/64778409?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Ujjwal gupta"/><br /><sub><b>Ujjwal gupta</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/ixahmedxi/noodle/commits?author=masterujjval" title="Documentation">📖</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/faizan07"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/14312760?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Faizanul Haque"/><br /><sub><b>Faizanul Haque</b></sub></a><br /><a href="#content-faizan07" title="Content">🖋</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/ShadyD45"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/54709753?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Shubham Dhumal"/><br /><sub><b>Shubham Dhumal</b></sub></a><br /><a href="#content-ShadyD45" title="Content">🖋</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://gedeondoescode.com"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/75461444?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Gedeon"/><br /><sub><b>Gedeon</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/ixahmedxi/noodle/commits?author=gedeondoescode" title="Code">💻</a></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<!-- markdownlint-restore -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:END -->

This project follows the [all-contributors](https://github.com/all-contributors/all-contributors) specification. Contributions of any kind are welcome!

Commit message:

Updated the README documentation by adding a 'Table of contents' section and a description for each planned feature. Also further explanation on how to clone a repository and work on it. Added some useful commands in the 'Running stuff' section. And added instructions on how to save change locally and on GitHub

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://github.com/ixahmedxi/noodle/blob/main/apps/web/public/android-chrome-192x192.png?raw=true" alt="Noodle logo" width="75">  
  <h1>Noodle <br> Rethinking Student Productivity</h1>
  <br>
</div>

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-BADGE:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->

[![All Contributors](https://img.shields.io/badge/all_contributors-14-orange.svg?style=flat-square)](#contributors-)

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-BADGE:END -->

> **Warning**
> This is a work-in-progress and not the finished product.
>
> Noodle is in it's very early days of development and there is not much going on for the product right now.
> We are working hard to providing an initial version as soon as possible and also accepting contributions.
>
> Feel free to leave feature suggestions but please don't open issues for bugs or support requests just yet.
>
> Follow me on twitter [@ixahmedxii](https://twitter.com/ixahmedxii) for updates.

![Noodle Preview](https://github.com/ixahmedxi/noodle/blob/main/apps/web/public/preview.png?raw=true)

<p align="center" style="color:dodgerblue;"><strong>⚠️ This is a UI design mockup of what the platform will look like, it is not the current state of the project.</strong></p>

## Table of contents

- [Planned Features](#planned-features)
- [Purpose](#purpose)
- [Star History](#star-history)
- [Contributors ✨](#contributors-)

## Planned Features

- 📁 Module/Subject Management
  - Allows students to organize their subjects. They can create, edit, and manage subjects to easily keep track of their academic curriculum.
- 📒 Note taking
  - Enables students to take digital notes and store them within the platform to easily access lecture notes.
- 🗄️ Task Management
  - Helps students keep track of assignments related to their courses to conveniently manage and prioritize academic tasks.
- ✅ Assignment grade calculator
  - Users can input their scores and weights, and the calculator will compute their overall assignment grades.
- ⚡️ Flash cards
  - Facilitate active learning by creating digital flashcards that help memorize key concepts.
- 🤖 Powerful AI automations
  - Enhance the student’s experience with the platform. These automations can include smart reminders, study recommendations, and personalized learning paths based on individual progress and performance.
- 📆 Timetable
  - Visual representation of their class schedule to help users keep track of class times, locations, and any changes to their academic calendar.
- 📈 Insights
  - Data-driven analysis of a student's academic performance via reports that enable students to gauge their progress and identify areas for improvement.
- 🧠 Mind maps
  - Support visual learning and brainstorming by visually connecting concepts related to their coursework.

## Purpose

Typically, for a student, you need to be using multiple applications just to be managing your education well. This would include a note-taking, a calendar, task management, a grade calculator, flashcards and more apps. This is tedious to manage and can be overwhelming for students.

Noodle is a platform that aims to solve this problem by providing a single platform for students to manage everything to do with their education. And with the power of having all of that data in one place, we can provide students with powerful insights and automation to help them be more productive.

As an open-source platform, Noodle strives to cultivate a community of students and developers who can collectively contribute to building the most exceptional student productivity platform.

## Star History

[![Star History Chart](https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=ixahmedxi/noodle#gh-light-mode-only)](https://star-history.com/#ixahmedxi/noodle#gh-light-mode-only)
[![Star History Chart](https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=ixahmedxi/noodle&theme=dark#gh-dark-mode-only)](https://star-history.com/#ixahmedxi/noodle#gh-dark-mode-only)

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://media3.giphy.com/media/v1.Y2lkPTc5MGI3NjExMnBkMmJ5d2FhbHBocm90ams1MzF5dTI5emVtNGhwMTFpdmp3YnZiYiZlcD12MV9pbnRlcm5hbF9naWZfYnlfaWQmY3Q9Zw/YnkMcHgNIMW4Yfmjxr/giphy.gif" alt="Stonks GIF">
</div>

## Contributors ✨

Thanks goes to these wonderful people ([emoji key](https://allcontributors.org/docs/en/emoji-key)):

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable -->
<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://elsakaan.dev"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/20271968?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Ahmed Elsakaan"/><br /><sub><b>Ahmed Elsakaan</b></sub></a><br /><a href="#audio-ixahmedxi" title="Audio">🔊</a> <a href="#video-ixahmedxi" title="Videos">📹</a> <a href="https://github.com/ixahmedxi/noodle/commits?author=ixahmedxi" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/ixahmedxi/noodle/commits?author=ixahmedxi" title="Documentation">📖</a> <a href="#a11y-ixahmedxi" title="Accessibility">️️️️♿️</a> <a href="https://github.com/ixahmedxi/noodle/issues?q=author%3Aixahmedxi" title="Bug reports">🐛</a> <a href="#blog-ixahmedxi" title="Blogposts">📝</a> <a href="#business-ixahmedxi" title="Business development">💼</a> <a href="#content-ixahmedxi" title="Content">🖋</a> <a href="#data-ixahmedxi" title="Data">🔣</a> <a href="#design-ixahmedxi" title="Design">🎨</a> <a href="#example-ixahmedxi" title="Examples">💡</a> <a href="#eventOrganizing-ixahmedxi" title="Event Organizing">📋</a> <a href="#financial-ixahmedxi" title="Financial">💵</a> <a href="#fundingFinding-ixahmedxi" title="Funding Finding">🔍</a> <a href="#ideas-ixahmedxi" title="Ideas, Planning, & Feedback">🤔</a> <a href="#maintenance-ixahmedxi" title="Maintenance">🚧</a> <a href="#mentoring-ixahmedxi" title="Mentoring">🧑‍🏫</a> <a href="#platform-ixahmedxi" title="Packaging/porting to new platform">📦</a> <a href="#plugin-ixahmedxi" title="Plugin/utility libraries">🔌</a> <a href="#projectManagement-ixahmedxi" title="Project Management">📆</a> <a href="#promotion-ixahmedxi" title="Promotion">📣</a> <a href="#question-ixahmedxi" title="Answering Questions">💬</a> <a href="#research-ixahmedxi" title="Research">🔬</a> <a href="https://github.com/ixahmedxi/noodle/pulls?q=is%3Apr+reviewed-by%3Aixahmedxi" title="Reviewed Pull Requests">👀</a> <a href="#security-ixahmedxi" title="Security">🛡️</a> <a href="#tool-ixahmedxi" title="Tools">🔧</a> <a href="#translation-ixahmedxi" title="Translation">🌍</a> <a href="https://github.com/ixahmedxi/noodle/commits?author=ixahmedxi" title="Tests">⚠️</a> <a href="#tutorial-ixahmedxi" title="Tutorials">✅</a> <a href="#talk-ixahmedxi" title="Talks">📢</a> <a href="#userTesting-ixahmedxi" title="User Testing">📓</a> <a href="#infra-ixahmedxi" title="Infrastructure (Hosting, Build-Tools, etc)">🚇</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/antoniobfm"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/23482001?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Antônio Moraes"/><br /><sub><b>Antônio Moraes</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/ixahmedxi/noodle/commits?author=antoniobfm" title="Documentation">📖</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://nrwl.io"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/23692104?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Nrwl"/><br /><sub><b>Nrwl</b></sub></a><br /><a href="#financial-nrwl" title="Financial">💵</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://www.liamsegura.com"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/102547056?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Liam Segura"/><br /><sub><b>Liam Segura</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/ixahmedxi/noodle/commits?author=liamsegura" title="Documentation">📖</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://nanos.club"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/22123308?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Nano"/><br /><sub><b>Nano</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/ixahmedxi/noodle/commits?author=misternano" title="Code">💻</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="http://rysana.com"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/51100181?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="John—Rysana"/><br /><sub><b>John—Rysana</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/ixahmedxi/noodle/commits?author=jrysana" title="Code">💻</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/mabdulker"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/97461667?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Max Abdulkerimov"/><br /><sub><b>Max Abdulkerimov</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/ixahmedxi/noodle/commits?author=mabdulker" title="Code">💻</a></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/JeKaQM"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/74925827?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Jeno Manivcsuk"/><br /><sub><b>Jeno Manivcsuk</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/ixahmedxi/noodle/commits?author=JeKaQM" title="Code">💻</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://i-naeem.github.io"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/100943448?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Muhammad Naeem"/><br /><sub><b>Muhammad Naeem</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/ixahmedxi/noodle/commits?author=i-naeem" title="Code">💻</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="http://website-xhayper.vercel.app"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/46065349?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="hayper"/><br /><sub><b>hayper</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/ixahmedxi/noodle/commits?author=xhayper" title="Documentation">📖</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/masterujjval"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/64778409?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Ujjwal gupta"/><br /><sub><b>Ujjwal gupta</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/ixahmedxi/noodle/commits?author=masterujjval" title="Documentation">📖</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/faizan07"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/14312760?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Faizanul Haque"/><br /><sub><b>Faizanul Haque</b></sub></a><br /><a href="#content-faizan07" title="Content">🖋</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/ShadyD45"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/54709753?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Shubham Dhumal"/><br /><sub><b>Shubham Dhumal</b></sub></a><br /><a href="#content-ShadyD45" title="Content">🖋</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://gedeondoescode.com"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/75461444?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Gedeon"/><br /><sub><b>Gedeon</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/ixahmedxi/noodle/commits?author=gedeondoescode" title="Code">💻</a></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<!-- markdownlint-restore -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:END -->

This project follows the [all-contributors](https://github.com/all-contributors/all-contributors) specification. Contributions of any kind are welcome!
